---
title: WrenBind17
---

# WrenBind17

WrenBind17 is a C++17 wrapper for [Wren programming language](http://wren.io/). This project was heavily inspired by [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11) and by [Wren++](https://github.com/Nelarius/wrenpp). This library is header only and does not need any compilation steps. Simply include the `<wrenbind17/wrenbind17.hpp>` header in your application and you are good to go!

## Features

* Header only.
* Works with Visual Studio 2017, MinGW-w64, Linux GCC, and Apple Clang on Mac OSX.
* C++17 so you don't need to use `decltype()` on class methods to bind them to Wren.
* [Foreign modules are automatically generated for you]({{< ref "Tutorial/hello-world.md" >}}). You don't need to write the extra foreign classes in separate file.
* **Supports strict type safety.** You won't be able to pass just any variable from Wren back to the C++, preventing you getting segmentation faults.
* Objects are wrapped in `std::shared_ptr` so you have easier access when passing objects around.
* Easy binding system inspired by [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11).
* [Works with exceptions]({{< ref "Tutorial/exceptions.md" >}}).
* [Upcasting to base types when passing C++ instances]({{< ref "Tutorial/upcasting.md" >}}).
* Memory leak tested.
* Supports `std::variant`.
* Supports `std::vector` and `std::list` via helper classes (optional).
* [Easy binding of operators]({{< ref "Tutorial/overload-operators.md" >}}) such as `+`, `-`, `[]`, etc.
* [Long but easy to follow tutorial]({{< ref "Tutorial/installation.md" >}}).
* [Supports Fn.new{}]({{< ref "Tutorial/callbacks.md" >}}).
* [Supports inheritance (a workaround)]({{< ref "Tutorial/inheritance.md" >}}).
* [Supports modularity via look-up paths]({{< ref "Tutorial/modules.md" >}}).
* [Supports passing variables by move]({{< ref "Tutorial/call-wren.md" >}})

## Limitations

* Passing by a reference to a Wren function will create a copy. Use a pointer if you do not wish to create copies and maintain single instance of a given class. This does not affect C++ member functions that return a reference, in that case it will be treated exactly same as a pointer.

## Not yet implemented

* Lambdas (very tricky due to passing function pointers, most likely not ever be implemented).
* `..`, `...`, and `is` operator binding.
* Helper classes for binding `std::queue`, `std::deque`, `std::stack`, `std::set`, `std::unordered_set`, `std::map`, and `std::unordered_map`.

## Documentation

Tutorials can be found [**here**]({{< ref "Tutorial/installation.md" >}})

And the autogenerated API documentation via Doxygen [**here**]({{< ref "Modules/group__wrenbind17.md" >}})

